Remove unnecessary python topic. Style changes to quickstart. (#13647)
apache/druid: docs/tutorials/index.md

  ~ under the License.
  -->

This quickstart helps you install Apache Druid and introduces you to Druid ingestion and query features. For this tutorial, you need a machine with at least 6 GiB of RAM.

In this quickstart, you'll:
- install Druid
- start up Druid services
- use SQL to ingest and query data

Druid supports a variety of ingestion options. Once you're done with this tutorial, refer to the
[Ingestion](../ingestion/index.md) page to determine which ingestion method is right for you.

## Prerequisites

You can follow these steps on a relatively modest machine, such as a workstation or virtual server with 6 GiB of RAM.

The software requirements for the installation machine are:

* Linux, Mac OS X, or other Unix-like OS. (Windows is not supported)
* [Java 8u92+ or Java 11](../operations/java.md)

> * Python 2 or Python 3

Author: ```suggestion
* Python 3 (preferred) or Python 2
```

* Perl 5

> You must set either the `JAVA_HOME` or `DRUID_JAVA_HOME` environment variable for Druid to find Java on the machine. If there is more than one version of Java installed, set

Author: ```suggestion
Java must be available. Either it is on your path, or set one of the `JAVA_HOME` or `DRUID_JAVA_HOME` environment variables.
```

> `DRUID_JAVA_HOME`. You can run `apache-druid-{{DRUIDVERSION}}/bin/verify-java` to verify Java requirements for your environment.

Author: ```suggestion
You can run `apache-druid-{{DRUIDVERSION}}/bin/verify-java` to verify Java requirements for your environment.
```

  ~ under the License.
  -->

This quickstart helps you install Apache Druid and introduces you to Druid ingestion and query features. For this tutorial, you need a machine with at least 6 GiB of RAM.

In this quickstart, you'll:
- install Druid
- start up Druid services
- use SQL to ingest and query data

Druid supports a variety of ingestion options. Once you're done with this tutorial, refer to the
[Ingestion](../ingestion/index.md) page to determine which ingestion method is right for you.

## Prerequisites

You can follow these steps on a relatively modest machine, such as a workstation or virtual server with 6 GiB of RAM.

The software requirements for the installation machine are:

* Linux, Mac OS X, or other Unix-like OS. (Windows is not supported)
* [Java 8u92+ or Java 11](../operations/java.md)

> 
> * [Python2 or Python3](../operations/python.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Python 2 or Python 3
```

* Perl 5

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

  ~ under the License.
  -->

This quickstart helps you install Apache Druid and introduces you to Druid ingestion and query features. For this tutorial, you need a machine with at least 16 GiB of RAM.

In this quickstart, you'll:
- install Druid
- start up Druid services
- use SQL to ingest and query data

Druid supports a variety of ingestion options. Once you're done with this tutorial, refer to the
[Ingestion](../ingestion/index.md) page to determine which ingestion method is right for you.

## Prerequisites

You can follow these steps on a relatively modest machine, such as a workstation or virtual server with 16 GiB of RAM.

Druid comes equipped with launch scripts that can be used to start all processes on a single server. Here, we will use [`auto`](../operations/single-server.md#druid-auto-start), which automatically sets various runtime properties based on available processors and memory.

> In addition, Druid includes several [bundled static profiles](../operations/single-server.md) for a range of machine sizes. These range from nano (1 CPU, 4 GiB RAM) to x-large (64 CPU, 512 GiB RAM).

Reviewer 2: Perhaps add, "Many people use the micro-quickstart profile when learning Druid." That way, folks won't have to guess which one to pick to get started.

Author: You don't need to pick one. `/bin/start-druid` should theoretically work without having to specify.

See [Single server deployment](../operations/single-server.md) for more information. To learn how to deploy Druid services across clustered machines, see [Clustered deployment](./cluster.md).

The software requirements for the installation machine are:

* Linux, Mac OS X, or other Unix-like OS. (Windows is not supported)
* [Java 8u92+ or Java 11](../operations/java.md)
* Python 2 or Python 3

> You must set either the `JAVA_HOME` or `DRUID_JAVA_HOME` environment variable for Druid to find Java on the machine. If there is more than one version of Java installed, set

Reviewer 2: Is this true? I suspect we can also infer the location from the `java` command. For example, on my machine, I have neither of the above env vars set, but `java` is on the path.

Reviewer 2: Suggestion:

> Java must be available. Either it is on your path, or set one of the `JAVA_HOME` or `DRUID_JAVA_HOME` environment variables.

> `DRUID_JAVA_HOME`. You can run `bin/verify-java` to verify Java requirements for your environment.

Reviewer 2: Suggestion. Newbies may not know which `bin` we mean above. The system one? One way to solve that is to define `DRUID_HOME` as the location of Druid, and say `$DRUID_HOME/bin...`.

> `DRUID_JAVA_HOME`. You can run `bin/verify-java` to verify Java requirements for your environment.

Author: ```suggestion
`DRUID_JAVA_HOME`. You can run `apache-druid-{{DRUIDVERSION}}/bin/verify-java` to verify Java requirements for your environment.
```
@paul-rogers , @vtlim mentioned this, but when you unzip the distribution it goes into the folder named apache-druid-{{DRUIDVERSION}} . The docs build script replaces druid {{DRUIDVERSION}} with the value. For example: `apache-druid-25.0`

  ~ under the License.
  -->

> This quickstart helps you install Apache Druid and introduces you to Druid ingestion and query features. For this tutorial, you need a machine with at least 16 GiB of RAM.

Reviewer: Just checking whether 6 GB should be changed to 16 GiB?

Author: @vtlim changed this based upon the following from #Requirements (which should be pre-requisites)
> You can follow these steps on a relatively modest machine, such as a workstation or virtual server with 16 GiB of RAM.

Author: @findingrish can you help clarify here? thanks!

Reviewer 3: The script requires a minimum memory of 4250 MB (when starting all services). 

We can use a slightly higher number in the docs, 5GB or 6GB.

Druid comes equipped with launch scripts that can be used to start all processes on a single server. Here, we will use [`auto`](../operations/single-server.md#druid-auto-start), which automatically sets various runtime properties based on available processors and memory.

> In addition, Druid includes several [bundled static profiles](../operations/single-server.md) for a range of machine sizes. These range from nano (1 CPU, 4GiB RAM) to x-large (64 CPU, 512GiB RAM).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition, Druid includes several [bundled static profiles](../operations/single-server.md) for a range of machine sizes. These range from nano (1 CPU, 4 GiB RAM) to x-large (64 CPU, 512 GiB RAM).
```

See [Single server deployment](../operations/single-server.md) for more information. To learn how to deploy Druid services across clustered machines, see [Clustered deployment](./cluster.md).

The software requirements for the installation machine are:

* Linux, Mac OS X, or other Unix-like OS. (Windows is not supported)
* [Java 8u92+ or Java 11](../operations/java.md)

> * Python2 or Python3

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Python 2 or Python 3
```

> You must set either the `JAVA_HOME` or `DRUID_JAVA_HOME` of the following the environment variables for Druid to find Java on the machine. If there is more than one version of Java installed, set

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You must set either the `JAVA_HOME` or `DRUID_JAVA_HOME` environment variable for Druid to find Java on the machine. If there is more than one version of Java installed, set
```

## Start up Druid services

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Start up Druid services using the automatic single-machine configuration.
This configuration includes default settings that are appropriate for this tutorial, such as loading the `druid-multi-stage-query` extension by default so that you can use the MSQ task engine.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Start up Druid services

Start up Druid services using the `auto` single-machine configuration.
This configuration includes default settings that are appropriate for this tutorial.
For example, it loads `druid-multi-stage-query` extension so that you can use the MSQ task engine to ingest data using SQL.

> You can view the `auto` setting and others in the configuration files in `conf/druid/`. 

Reviewer: The [`auto` folder](https://github.com/apache/druid/tree/master/examples/conf/druid/auto) has the configuration files
```suggestion
You can view the default settings in the configuration files located in `conf/druid/auto`.
```

> From the apache-druid-{{DRUIDVERSION}} package root, run the following command:

Reviewer 2: Suggestion: use `apache-druid-<version>` or `apche-druid-$DRUID_VERSION`. The double brackets are a bit non-standard in this context, though they are used in Go's templating system.

Reviewer: These variables get filled in when the docs get built, [for example](https://druid.apache.org/docs/latest/tutorials/):
> From the apache-druid-25.0.0 package root, run the following command:

```bash
./bin/start-druid
```

> This launches instances of ZooKeeper and the Druid services.

Reviewer 2: Suggestion: `start-druid` launches ZooKeeper and the various Druid services.

Does this cluster use the embedded Derby DB? If so, we might want to say that and note that a production system would use MySQL or Postgres instead.

[Tue Nov 29 16:31:06 2022] Running command[middleManager]: bin/run-druid middleManager /apache-druid-{{DRUIDVERSION}}/conf/druid/single-server/quickstart '-Xms64m -Xmx64m' '-Ddruid.worker.capacity=2 -Ddruid.indexer.runner.javaOptsArray=["-server","-Duser.timezone=UTC","-Dfile.encoding=UTF-8","-XX:+ExitOnOutOfMemoryError","-Djava.util.logging.manager=org.apache.logging.log4j.jul.LogManager","-Xms256m","-Xmx256m","-XX:MaxDirectMemorySize=256m"]'
```

> It may use up to 80% of the total available system memory.

Reviewer 2: It -> "Druid"

> It may use up to 80% of the total available system memory.

Author: ```suggestion
Druid may use up to 80% of the total available system memory.
```

> To explicitly set the total memory available to Druid, pass a value for the memory parameter, e.g. `./bin/start-druid -m 16g` or `./bin/start-druid --memory 16g`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To explicitly set the total memory available to Druid, pass a value for the memory parameter. For example, `./bin/start-druid -m 16g`. 
```
Both `-m` and `--memory` refer to the [same argument](https://github.com/apache/druid/blob/master/examples/bin/start-druid-main.py#L141) so I think one example is sufficient.

> Druid stores all persistent state data, such as the cluster metadata store and data segments to `apache-druid-{{DRUIDVERSION}}-var`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Druid stores all persistent state data, such as the cluster metadata store and data segments, in `apache-druid-{{DRUIDVERSION}}/var`.
```
I think `var` should be subfolder based on the original wording

> Each service writes to a log file under `var/sv`.

Reviewer 2: Did we change that again? In my latest build, logs go to `$DRUID_HOME/log`.

(See how smooth it is to use $DRUID_HOME instead of `apache-druid-{{DRUIDVERSION}}`?

Also, note that here we are prefixing `var` with `apache-druid-{{DRUIDVERSION}}`, where as above we just referenced `bin` without a prefix.

> Each service writes to a log file under `var/sv`.

Author: ```suggestion
Each service writes to a log file under `apache-druid-{{DRUIDVERSION}}/log`.
```
looks like it's going to log dir

At any time, you can revert Druid to its original, post-installation state by deleting the entire `var` directory. You may want to do this, for example, between Druid tutorials or after experimentation, to start with a fresh instance. 

To stop Druid at any time, use CTRL+C in the terminal. This exits the `bin/start-druid` script and terminates all Druid processes.

## Open the web console 

> After the Druid services launch, open the [web console](../operations/web-console.md) at [http://localhost:8888](http://localhost:8888). 

Reviewer 2: Actually, it takes some time for the services to become ready after they "launch." Maybe:

> After starting the Druid services, open ...

> After the Druid services launch, open the [web console](../operations/web-console.md) at [http://localhost:8888](http://localhost:8888). 

Author: ```suggestion
After starting the Druid services, open the [web console](../operations/web-console.md) at [http://localhost:8888](http://localhost:8888). 
```
